# 12-25

## version control of REST APIs

### URI

pros:
- cache the resource: new version means new cache entry

cons:
- breaking changes means branching the entire API
- breaking the resource concept by introducing the version in URI

### query parameter

pros:

- straightforward query usages
  
cons:

- complicated handling logic to swtich different code based on api version


### header

pros:

- clean URI and query parameter


cons:

- custom header might be extra layer of burden for the clients
- same cons as query parameter when application to handle the different version in code base

## Reasons to use a message queue like Kafka

one publisher and multiple consumer to consume the same piece of information but with different handling logic

## SQL DB

Avoid using SQL databases when processing large amounts of continuously changing data.

Avoid a table scan as much as possible.

## Skip list

youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NDGpsfwAaqo

Base layer: a sorted linked list with N elements.
1st layer: a sorted linked list with 1 element skippted: N/2 elements.
2st layer: a serted linked list with 3 elements skipped: N/4 elements.
so on and so forth until the top layer has only 1 element

"shortcuts"

perfect skiplist vs randomized skiplist

why use randomized skiplist over perfect skiplist: becuase the perfect skiplist structure is too strict to maintain. Removing an important element from a perfect skiplist can completely mess up the skiplist structure and sacrifice efficiency.

## Redis Cluster

Not consisten hashing, but hash partition.

The entire Redis cluster shares a fixed number of partition slots. Find the slot based on the hash key. So when repartitioning, only the impacted slots will need to be moved. This limits the total number of keys to be rearranged.

## Scatter & Gather pattern

distribute the subtask and collect the results and integrate them into the final result.